---
layout:post
title:essay
date:2017-11-02
---
<div class="content">
<h2> Why the Moon Orbits the Earth </h2>
<p>
 Before Earth was formed, there was only Matahari and Bulan who lived in space, a dark, cold, and empty place. Matahari was a beautiful and radiant goddess. She was always happy and patient. Bulan, however, was always dissatisfied with the way things were. He complained about how cold and boring it was whenever he had the chance. Matahari listened to his complaints with a patient smile on her face each time. She would often offer alternative solutions to his problems, but he’d shut each of them down for being “not reasonable” or “too silly”. He even shut down her planned out ideas, which frustrated her, but she always smiled in the end. 
</p>
<p>
As time passed, they decided to marry each other, hope that the world would become more eventful. In order to celebrate their marriage, the two joined hands and created glowing spheres called the Furuj, which means “star”. In return for being brought to existence, the stars formed together and covered Matahari, creating a dress. Other stars repaid the gods’ kindness by joining together and creating pictures and shapes in hopes that they will appreciate it. Matahari and Bulan were very grateful, and married in front of the Furuj.
</p>
<p>
After years of being married, Bulan finally gave into Matahari’s wishes to have kids. Their first kid was a very big rock. Bulan became angered because it was just a floating rock. Bulan and Matahari tried many times. Matahari continued to produce rocks, and Bulan was angrier. Matahari finally admitted that she was tired. However, Bulan was impatient and wanted a god or goddess. The two argued, and he threatened to wipe out the existence of every rock. She begged him not to. Giving into his impatience and anger, she reluctantly tried again, creating 2 more rocks before creating Merkurius, Venus, Bumi, Mars, Yupiter, Saturnus, Uranus, and Neptunus. Merkurius, the youngest son, was as impatient as Bulan, and turned out to be very hot headed. Venus was a very beautiful daughter who was also impatient, but had the beauty of her mother. Bumi was a very shy daughter, and she didn’t speak out much. She was very plain compared to her siblings. Mars was the energetic son, who was very friendly with Bumi, unlike the others. Yupiter was the strongest sibling, always showing off his muscular build. Saturnus was the daughter who was prettier than her siblings and her mom. She also loved herself so much that  she created a ring from the stars for herself. Uranus and Neptunus were twins, however, Uranus was the oldest son and Neptunus was the oldest daughter. The two were very similar in size and often liked to bully the younger siblings, except for Yupiter and Saturnus who were more threatening than the others.
</p>
<p>
Bulan was satisfied with the outcome, but wanted to have more. Finally, Matahari’s composure was gone. Her built up anger caused her to grow and grow as she inhaled. He continued to shrink in sudden fear and intimidation. When she exhaled, she was already 400 times bigger than him. Her anger was released onto him. Yelling and screams startled the gods. Her release of anger lasted many years and decades. Her patience was completely gone, causing her to become bitter and strict. Luckily, after her current anger ended, she curled up into a ball, exhausted from being angry. Bulan, who was terrified, ordered the gods to sleep. They all curled into balls, and the younger they were, the closer they slept besides their mother. Bulan, who was also very tired, decided to sleep besides a god or goddess who might protect him when she might wake up. He first thought of Yupiter, but figured that he might’ve grown to hate him after seeing Matahari’s wrath. In fact, he figured that almost all of the gods and goddesses sided with her, except for one. He assumed that Bumi, who was the calm one with a lot of patience like her mother, might have forgiven him already. So, he slept besides Bumi for many years.
</p>
<p>
Although the gods were asleep, their mind and spiritual body lingered. Bulan stood on his planet, always on the watch for Matahari. As he was being on the lookout for her, he noticed that the gods in their sleeping forms orbited her. He decided to orbit around Bumi, but was always facing the opposite direction of Matahari. He also saw that their sleeping forms after many years became layered with the many rocks that Matahari once birthed. Bulan was glad because he assumed that the rock layers would protect him and serve as armor, but after 18 months, he finally had the chance to test it. He wasn’t expecting to come across her again, but he felt prepared. In his spiritual body, he faced her spiritual body, who was still very big compared to him. She wasn’t expecting to see him either, but she still let out her anger, even in her spirit form. He survived the first time, but her anger created craters in his armor on his physical body. He dreaded to come across her after that. Little did he know, he’d face her wrath every 18 months.
</p>
</div>
